oh it's a wonderful time to be alive
nothing adds up two plus two equals five
and that's just fine what about real
estate is it overvalued or can it go up
forever well you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you today we
are going to look at the global real
estate prices that have been rising and
rising let's begin
UBS global real estate bubble index we
have the usual suspects London Hong Kong
and so on and it goes through this list
trying to determine which are and on the
right hand side we have this legend
bubble which are overvalued and so on
what we hear in the mainstream media
financial media the newspapers and the
general consensus is that real estate
prices can continue to rise and there
are various factors which will determine
that and depending on the city you live
in you may hear that well we have new
immigrants coming in they are purchasing
the real estate and therefore as long as
they're coming in buying the real estate
the inventory will remain low that is my
next one which is low inventories and we
also have to factor in foreign
investment okay those are the three that
I tend to hear and there are two that
are not discussed that are not released
throughout the mainstream media and
don't make it into the consensus but
that's why you're here on this channel
to watch this video so you can learn the
truth number one I've said it a million
times interest rates are at or near
historic lows right now you in the US or
Canada you may have seen your interest
rates rising a little bit but there are
some places where they are still at raw
bottoms and even in the US and Canada
they are still historically very very
low and nobody wants to factors this
into their equations and then there's
something else the average home price
versus the average wage so think about
that if real estate and your wages were
both increasing at the same rate all the
time to certain degrees that I would
have no argument but that is not the
case real estate has been rising much
much faster than anybody's wages except
if you're in the top 1% and so what does
that mean for the average person well
quite frankly they're unable to afford
their homes so let's look at a typical
article that you will see home prices
will continue to rise
ok that's from March 2017 it doesn't
even matter I just wanted to show you
this they make excuses and sure we can
use data any which way we want right but
you can't deny certain things and the
household median income to the median
house price is just one of the best ways
to determine our real estate price is
overvalued in a bubble under value and
so on all right well let's get right to
it
congratulations Toronto you won that's
right all of my friends here in Toronto
you've done so well your real estate
prices have risen the most in the entire
world in this short period of time they
have increased
such a degree in such a short period of
time that they have surpassed London
Vancouver Sydney Hong Kong and Stockholm
and so on and yet you talk to the
average real estate agent you talk to
the average person and they will say
that real estate prices will continue to
rise they do not factor in the two
figures that I just mentioned because
they have a lot riding on real estate
prices continuing to rise most people a
very large percentage of people anyway
have taken home equity line of credit
out so they extract the equity from
their house they use that however which
way they want maybe they're by some
iPhones and iPods and some cars and they
renovate their house and who knows what
else but that money has been used it's
no longer in the equity because they're
assuming that it's just going to rise
and that bank account just fills itself
up unfortunately that's not going to
happen
a bubble does not expand forever and
when it comes crashing down it causes a
big ruckus along the way there's a
ripple effect that will be felt so once
again congratulations Toronto you have
the crown above your head wonderful job
you're going to make a lot of people
very poor one day one day soon and
looking at this the index over the past
three years you know I've been seeing
these statistics I've been covering them
here on the channel very regularly real
housing prices in Toronto rose 50 50
percent over the last five years in real
estate that's absurd
even in stock
that is absurd compare that to all the
different markets and all of a sudden it
looks like these other ones are well
valued but that's not the case they're
very expensive just when you compare it
to the rise that Toronto has had
recently you can't even believe it
now while prices have started to become
a little weary right now I don't think
that it is necessarily done with at
least not yet
I mean if interest rates are gonna stay
this low maybe the prices can continue
to rise and when you look at wages maybe
all of a sudden we're going to get some
bonuses from the government well wishful
thinking I don't think that's the way
it's going to be all I'm seeing here is
things are becoming more overvalued one
degree or another even if we exclude
toronto from this equation we still see
housing prices rising and rising but the
wages don't keep up at least from what I
see
UBS global real estate bubble index year
in the USA specifically they are looking
at these different cities New York
Boston San Francisco Chicago Los Angeles
I would say on average over we're
tracking the the same lines here and
when when you see this so-called fair
value you know I don't agree I really
don't agree maybe four we're going to go
into the undervalue territory we can
agree on that but the value of the
dollars have been declining so badly
that we can't judge any of this it's not
accurate
the real housing prices have gone far
beyond what the average wage is and it's
not just in cities like San Francisco
and New York we are witnessing that
across the u.s. across the globe
housing prices are rising in almost all
cities just look at this just look at
how intense these rise have been and
surely there are ups and downs there are
little blips along the way it doesn't
matter all I'm trying to show you is
that you see the housing prices going
all the way down this list
they've been rising and individuals are
not doing any better they're faking that
they're doing better by taking the
equity out of their homes and then
sometimes using that in to buy other
homes there they're doing second
mortgages they are involved in so much
debt right now at this time in one way
shape or form the line of credit they
have the most amount of debt that has
ever happened the most amount of that
ever but of course that's not a problem
right well look at how many cities and
states and provinces out there have
found themselves in a whole heaping pile
of debt and as a result something had to
change like for example when you saw
pensions needed to be cut because of the
amount of debt that a particular state
was in oh wait a minute I thought that
couldn't happen well of course it does
because they can do whatever the hell
they want just like in the European
region where they said they were not
able to bail out companies and yet
they're doing it it's in the treaty not
allowed and it did it anyway
Greece votes on a referendum no bailout
the very next day they go for the
bailout they don't give a damn about you
when the government does something when
the banks are doing something when any
of these big corporations and
institutions are doing something they're
not doing it to help you out they're
doing it against your own will against
your favor
I assure you this has been documented
over and over again and we continue to
have examples that's all for this video
if you found that informative please
give me a thumbs up last but not least
if you found this video informative I
know you will find my books the money
GPS and my new release global economic
collapse even more informative the first
book I get into the four asset classes
and how to profit from it and in my
newer book I get into reducing your
monthly expenses and becoming
self-sufficient solar panels and many
more things you could check these out at
Amazon the links are in the description
below
take care